Implementing tests in dispRity


CHECKING FOR SATURATION
1-Compare the difference between the full cladisto-space (observed) and the bootstraps data of the subsamples.
2-Check the phylogenetic structure of the pco matrix
2.1-phylogenetic correlation within the matrix
2.2-If correlation is strong, characters bear a strong phylo signal (low homoplasy - slow evolving) end up with saturation
2.3-If correlation is weak, characters bear low phylo signal (high homoplasy - fast evolving) saturation less likely
2.4-Expected saturation when low phylo-signal?

TESTING DIFFERENCES
For diversity testing, include lm method (correlated/estimated intercept).
serial lm:
Use linear vs. quadratic model (effect of time). See Sakamoto, Benton, Venditti talk.
1-fit a lm between time slices 1 and 2 (use probabilistic model (between 0-1)
2-test if slope is significant (if yes, difference, else, none)
3-estimate the intercept at time slice 2
4-fit lm between slice 2 and 3 with fixing intercept from step 3
5-back to point 2 but with the slice 3

CORRECT FOR PHYLOGENY
Correct for the number of taxa in common between the two slices?
-use phylogenetic diversity (i.e. total  branch length) between two slices and correct scores by ratio
correlation<-sum(brlen slice1)/sum(brlen slice2)
t.test(slice1~correlation, slice2~correlation)
Idea is that you should increase the similarities between the two trees in the test
-Or just use RF with branch length? Idea being that if slice-trees are the same, disparity is expected to be the same;
if slice-trees are really different, disparity is expected to be possibly different.


PGLS ON OBSERVED DISTTANCE FROM CENTROID (difference between two slices corrected for phylogeny).
do PGLS between slices?
distance from centroid ~ slice (1 & 2); random terms=combined phylogeny?
Create a "sub-phylogeny" with tips and nodes (as tips)?
Future: expand towards multiple slices (sequential)

SAMPLING BIASE
-do something along Butler's method?

http://www.pnas.org.sci-hub.org/content/112/12/3758.short
http://fishlab.ucdavis.edu/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/PricePRS2014.pdf

OUwie package (Beaulieu)

TEM tree on squamates
Reeder 2015 PLoS ONE


Hélène Morlon (ENS)



dispRity:
alllow one metric (volume, etc...) or two (sum of range, etc...)

axis descriptor (range, variance) -> describing the space rules (axis)
species descriptors (centroid, etc..) -> describing the space occupancy (taxa)
volume -> describing both?